---
createdAt: 2022-12-10T22:44:58.193Z
name: Sardul Singh Hundal
birthdate: 1911-01-01
image: /images/sardulsingh.jpg
nickname: sardulsingh
starred: true
---
Sardul Singh was born in 1911 in the house of Sardar Lakha Singh and Bibi Punjab Kaur. He was the eldest among his six brothers and sisters. His parents loved him very much. Since his early age, he was a simple, bright and jovial person.   

 He took great interest in social service. He completed his matriculation from village Alawalpur, district Jalandhar. In recognition of his social service, the sardars of Alawalpur offered him a job in their bank. After a few years of service, he was promoted to the position of branch manager. Due to his hard work and far-sightedness, this bank opened its branches in other towns. He worked very hard to make these branches successful.   

 He was married at a young age and had three children-one daughter and two sons. His wife died at young age. For the sake of young children and under the pressure of his family, he got married second time to Bibi Gurdip Kaur, of village Lalton, district Ludhiana. With her, he had one daughter and one son.

 In 1970, he retired from his bank job and returned to his village with family. He decided to emigrate to Canada for children's future and better life. His three brothers had already been living in Canada. In 1972, he came to Canada as a visitor. While in Canada, he applied to get permanent immigration in Canada. In 1976, he sponsored his wife and children to Canada. At that time he was working in a sawmill in Williamslake, British Columbia. In 1978, he retired from sawmill and started working for the welfare of people. At the same time, he helped his son Onkar Singh in his studies. Onkar graduated from high school in 1982. 

 In 1983, he and his family moved from Williamslake to Vancouver. In the same year, he started performing service at Khalsa Diwan Society's gurdwara on Ross Street in Vancouver. He used to commute daily between his house and the temple on bus. 

 In 1984, he bought a house in North Delta. Even then, he continued going to the Ross Street gurdwara in Vancouver on a daily basis to do service for people. Usually, it took him 3 hours daily to commute between his house in Delta and the gurdwara in Vancouver. Such a long bus journey became more challenging during the extreme hot weather in Summer and cold weather during the winters. He did not care about these challenges and continued going to Ross street gurdwara 7 days a week for the next 17 years until 2000. 

He helped people by filling their forms related to different kinds of government services. For example, he helped people in filling their applications for Employment Insurance, Citizenship, Immigration, Bus Pass and completing their income tax returns at the end of the year. If someone had to go to the offices of these service providers, he used to accompany them and do his best to resolve their issues. He provided all these services free, when many other people in the community were charging hefty fees for these kinds of things.    

Khalsa Diwan Society's gurdwara at Ross street Vacouver honoured him for his community service.   

 In 2000, at the age of 90, he stopped going to gurdwara in Vancouver and started going to Delta/Surrey gurdwara on Scott road in Surrey and continued his community service there. On the day of his death, on 26th January 2004, he had helped someone in need and had planned a meeting to help someone else on the next day. However, nature has something else planned for him. On that day, close to midnight he passed away and left this world.  

 In this world, there are not many personalities like him, who believe in the rules of nature and dedicate their whole lives in the service of humanity.